[Streams] Data quality updates (#6247)
elastic/docs-content: solutions/observability/streams/management/data-quality.md

Reviewer: I don't see a Data quality menu on my Streams page, only a data quality column in the list of streams (trying on Obs serverless) 

<img width="1498" height="660" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6b34b2a1-2496-4201-bc43-0b9b867c9604" />

Author: Should have said the data quality column, not menu. Thanks for that!

## Data quality calculation [streams-data-quality-calculation]

Streams uses the following ES|QL queries to calculate the quality score for a stream:

> - All documents (including failures): `FROM <stream-name>, <stream-name>::failures | STATS doc_count = COUNT(*)`

Author: ```suggestion
- All documents (including failed documents): `FROM <stream-name>, <stream-name>::failures | STATS doc_count = COUNT(*)`
```

- Failed documents only: `FROM <stream-name>::failures | STATS failed_doc_count = COUNT(*)`
- Degraded documents: `FROM <stream-name> METADATA _ignored | WHERE _ignored IS NOT NULL | STATS degraded_doc_count = COUNT(*)`

Streams calculates data quality as follows:

* **Good:** Both the **Degraded documents** percentage and the **Failed documents only** percentage are 0.
* **Degraded:** Either the **Degraded documents** percentage or the **Failed documents only** percentage are greater than 0 and less than or equal to 3.

> * **Poor:** Either the **Degraded documents** percentage or the **Failed documents only** percentage are greater than 3.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Good:** Both the **Degraded documents** percentage and the **Failed documents** percentage are 0.
* **Degraded:** Either the **Degraded documents** percentage or the **Failed documents** percentage are greater than 0 and less than or equal to 3.
* **Poor:** Either the **Degraded documents** percentage or the **Failed documents** percentage are greater than 3.
```

## Data quality calculation [streams-data-quality-calculation]

> Streams uses the following ES|QL queries to calculate the quality score for a stream:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Streams uses the following {{esql}} queries to calculate the quality score for a stream:
```

### Turn on failure stores
In Streams, you need to turn on failure stores to get failed documents. To do this, select **Enable failure store** in the **Failed documents** component. From here you can set your failure store retention period.

For more information on data quality, refer to the [data set quality](../../data-set-quality-monitoring.md) documentation.

## Create a data quality alert [streams-data-quality-alert]

To get notified when the percentage of degraded documents in a stream exceeds a threshold, create an alert rule from the **Data quality** tab.

1. Open the **Data quality** tab for the stream you want to monitor.
2. Select **Create rule** ({icon}`bell`).

> 3. Define the conditions for your rule.

Reviewer: I think the create-a-degraded-docs-rule page needs an update as it currently states this. Are those version-specific? maybe need applies to?

<img width="761" height="243" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1b5a4328-23e0-45ba-abab-50c17db29480" />

> For more information, refer to [Create a degraded docs rule](../../incident-management/create-a-degraded-docs-rule.md).

Reviewer: If we can't bring the instructions to this page, maybe rather add this link in step 3 rather than after ?
